expandedArmory/weapon/tables/simple_melee.md, before:

##### Simple Melee Weapons
___
| Name | Variants | Damage | Cost | Weight | Properties |
|:-|:-|:-|-:|-:|:-|
| Unarmed strike | | 1 bludgeoning | | | light, monk |
| Club | cudgel, sap | 1d4 bludgeoning | 1 sp | 2 lb. | light, monk, sneaky (1d6) |
| Light hammer | throwing hammer | 1d4 bludgeoning | 2 gp | 2 lb. | light, monk, thrown (20/60) |
| Light flail | horseman's flail | 1d6 bludgeoning | 5 gp | 2 lb. | flexible, monk |
| Mace | baton, truncheon | 1d6 bludgeoning | 5 gp | 3 lb. | crushing, monk |
| Quarter staff | | 1d6 bludgeoning | 2 sp | 4 lb. | lunging (1d4), monk, versatile (1d8) |
| Great club | two-handed club | 1d8 bludgeoning | 2 sp | 10 lb. | crushing, slow, two-handed |
| Sickle | machete | 1d4 slashing | 1 gp | 2 lb. | brutal, light, monk |
| Hand axe | hatchet, throwing axe | 1d6 slashing | 5 gp | 2 lb. | light, monk, thrown (20/60) |
| Shovel | hoe, spade | 1d8 slashing | 5 sp | 2 lb. | two-handed |
| Scythe | | 1d8 slashing | 2 gp | 10 lb. | brutal, heavy, slow, two-handed |
| Dagger | dirk, knife, stiletto | 1d4 piercing or slashing | 2 gp | 1 lb. | finesse, light, monk, sneaky (1d6), thrown (20/60), underwater |
| Light pick | horseman's pick | 1d6 piercing | 5 gp | 4 lb. | high crit, light, monk, slow |
| Javelin | pilum | 1d6 piercing | 5 sp | 2 lb. | high crit, lunging (1d4), monk, thrown (30/90), underwater |
| Spear | | 1d6 piercing |  | 2 gp | 3 lb. | brace, high crit, lunging (1d4), monk, thrown (20/60), underwater, versatile (1d8) |
| Pitchfork | | 1d8 piercing | 5 gp | 2 lb. | brace, high crit, two-handed, underwater |
| Lasso | lariat | | 1 sp | 0.1 lb. | flexible, grappling, monk, reach |

Commit message:

updated martial melee weapons table

expandedArmory/weapon/tables/simple_melee.md, after:

##### Simple Melee Weapons

Simple melee weapons are easily made or improvised from tools on hand. Simple weapons tend to do less damage and have fewer beneficial properties than martial weapons, but they also cost less and are easy to come by.

___
| Name | Variants | Damage | Cost | Weight | Properties |
|:-|:-|:-|-:|-:|:-|
| Unarmed strike | | 1 bludgeoning | | | light, monk |
| Club | cudgel, sap | 1d4 bludgeoning | 1 sp | 2 lb. | light, monk, sneaky (1d6) |
| Light hammer | throwing hammer | 1d4 bludgeoning | 2 gp | 2 lb. | light, monk, thrown (20/60) |
| Light flail | horseman's flail | 1d6 bludgeoning | 5 gp | 2 lb. | flexible, monk |
| Mace | baton, truncheon | 1d6 bludgeoning | 5 gp | 3 lb. | crushing, monk |
| Quarter staff | | 1d6 bludgeoning | 2 sp | 4 lb. | lunging (1d4), monk, versatile (1d8) |
| Great club | two-handed club | 1d8 bludgeoning | 2 sp | 10 lb. | crushing, slow, two-handed |
| Sickle | machete | 1d4 slashing | 1 gp | 2 lb. | brutal, light, monk |
| Hand axe | hatchet, throwing axe | 1d6 slashing | 5 gp | 2 lb. | light, monk, thrown (20/60) |
| Shovel | hoe, spade | 1d8 slashing | 5 sp | 2 lb. | two-handed |
| Scythe | | 1d8 slashing | 2 gp | 10 lb. | brutal, heavy, slow, two-handed |
| Dagger | dirk, knife, stiletto | 1d4 piercing or slashing | 2 gp | 1 lb. | finesse, light, monk, sneaky (1d6), thrown (20/60), underwater |
| Light pick | horseman's pick | 1d6 piercing | 5 gp | 4 lb. | high crit, light, monk, slow |
| Javelin | pilum | 1d6 piercing | 5 sp | 2 lb. | high crit, lunging (1d4), monk, thrown (30/90), underwater |
| Spear | | 1d6 piercing |  | 2 gp | 3 lb. | brace, high crit, lunging (1d4), monk, thrown (20/60), underwater, versatile (1d8) |
| Pitchfork | | 1d8 piercing | 5 gp | 2 lb. | brace, high crit, two-handed, underwater |
| Lasso | lariat | | 1 sp | 0.1 lb. | flexible, grappling, monk, reach |
