### Martial Melee Weapons

Martial melee weapons are crafted specifically for battle and meant to be wielded by trained warriors and soldiers. Common soldiers are typically outfitted with a polearm and a light one-handed weapon as a fallback, while commanders and elite soldiers tend to use versatile or great weapons. Martial melee weapons tend to do more damage and have more beneficial properties than their simple counterparts, yet the also cost more and aren't as readily available.

___

* **Battle Axe and Great Axe.** A battle axe is a long handled single-bladed axe that can be wielded in one or two hands. Similar weapons include military cleavers and the khopseh, which is an exotic-looking axe-like sword with an outwardly curving blade. A great axe is a heavier version of the battle axe, often doube-bladed, meant to be wielded in two-hands. Axes are a favored weapon among brutal humanoids like orcs that like to intimidate their opponents.

* **Broad Sword.** A sword with wide double-edged blade with very little taper and a short pommel. The length is about midway between a short sword and a long sword, reaching lengths up to 3'. It is often considered a pre-cursor to the long sword.

* **Chain.** A chain is a length of interlocking metal loops or bars and weighted on the ends. It can be used to whip, flail, or grapple opponents. Some chain weapons are spiked or have blades attached to the weighted ends.

* **Gauntlet, Clawed Gauntlet, or Spiked Gauntlet.** A gauntlet is a metal or weighted leather glove, usually worn as part of a suit of armor, that can add additonal impact to unarmed strikes. Gauntlets can be modified to include claws or spikes which cause additional slashing or piercing damage in hand-to-hand combat.

* **Glaive.** A glaive is a single-edged slashing blade mounted on a long pole. A glaive is one of the few reach weapons that is not also slow. Similar weapons include the bill and fauchard.

* **Halberd.** A halberd is an axe-bladed polearm, which may also feature a long spike on the end or a hooked blade opposite the axe-head. It allows the user to chop or pierce opponents. It is frequently wielded by palace guards or deployed against pike walls to cut long weapons while safely out of reach.

* **Lance.** Lances are long spears with a one-handed grip meant to be used while mounted. Due to their length and relatively light weight compared to the force generated by striking with a mounted charge lances are prone to breakage and have the **weak** property. Due to this fact a backup weapon is usually necessary. Jousting lances are meant to be use in practice and sport, while true lances come in a variety of weights depending on the size and strength of the mount and rider. Lances are favored among cavaliers, paladins, and other knights.

* **Long Sword and Great Sword.** The long sword is the melee weapon to which all others weapons are compared. Long swords come in a variety of styles but all feature a 3' to 4' double-edged blade that sharpens to a point, a wide cross-guard, and an elongated grip with a weighted pommel for counter-balance. It balances speed, versatility, and lethality and is a favorite choice among adventurers and nobles. It is also one of the most common weapons to be enchanted. The great sword is a massive long sword meant to be weilded in two hands with blades that can reach up to 6' in length. They are typically wielded by heavily armored knights.

* **Man Catcher.** A cage-like ring of inwardly pointing barbs mounted on the end of a long pole. Intended to be used to unhorse riders and capture targets rather than kill them.

* **Morning Star.** Not to be confused with a ball and chain, a morningstar is a large mace studded with spikes or alternatively a large club with with nails or other sharpened protrusions projecting from it. It is a nasty weapon favored among brutes and bugbears.

* **Nunchaku.** A light flail-like weapon optimized for martial arts and duel wielding.

* **Pike.** A very long spear meant to be used with two-hands and in formation with other pikemen. Similar to pikes are other thrusting spear-like polearms including the partisan, ranseur, and spetum.

* **Pole Hammer.** A long pole with a head shaped like a cross-between a hammer and a pick allowing the user to do either bludgeoning or piercing damage. Sometimes called a lucern hammer or bec-de-corbin based on the length of the spike or "beak".

* **Punching Dagger.** A short bladed dagger with a T-shaped or H-shaped handle meant to be gripped in the fist with the blade protruding forward from the knuckles. It generally lacks a crossguard and cannot be thrown, trading versatility for increased force.

* **Rapier.** A long thin bladed sword meant for fencing and thrusting, often carried as a symbol of prestige and favored among nobles. They often have elaborate crossguards or basket hilts to protect the wielder's hand.

* **Scimitar.** A short curved single-edged sword that makes for an effective weapon and all-purpose chopping tool. Popular among pirates.

* **Scourge.** A short whip with multiple thongs typically made of leather. The thongs are often tipped with knots or sharp metal tips in order to cause additional pain.

* **Short Sword.** A small straight sword with a double-edged blade but primarily meant for stabbing. It is often given to soldiers as a back-up weapon for close combat should they not be able to bring polearms to bear.

* **War Flail and Great Flail.** A war flail is a flail fashioned with one or more spiked balls on the end of a long chains specifically crafted for battle and is particularly effective against opponents with shields. A great flail is even larger and heavier and meant to be used with two hands. Flails are a favored weapon among gnolls.

* **War Hammer and Great Hammer.** A battle hammer that can be used with one or two hands, fashioned with either two blunt ends or a blunt end balanced by a short spike. A maul or great hammer is even larger and heavier and can only be wielded in two-hands. Hammers are a favored weapon among the dwarves.

* **War Pick and Great Pick.** A war pick is meant for combat and able to be used in one or two hands. A great pick is larger and heavier and only able to be wielded in two hands.

* **Whip.** A long braided flexible leather cord attached to a stiff handle. Traditionally used to train animals or torture prisoners it can be useful as a weapon as well.
